---
layout: post
title:  "Markdown | Easy to read, Easy to write"
date:   2015-01-23
---

What we know about ```HTML``` is that it is a ```markup``` language. We need to write content within ```HTML``` tags to achieve some kind of functionality. This process some time becomes cumbersome while dealing with nested tags. What if you can write some text and it gets render into HTML format, exactly same what you were expecting. So ```markdown``` is the answer.

__John Gruber__ invented this concept of markdown in 2004. It is a software, written in ```Perl``` that converts plain text in HTML. There are some syntax to be followed while writting in markdown. So how to go about writting in markdown ? Let us try writting "Hello World" using markdown.


```
touch hello.md
```

```
#Hello World
```

Markdown files are saved using ```.md``` extension. What we did is that we wrote ```#Hello World``` in hello.md this text got converted as ```<h1>Hello World</h1>``` while rendering it. If we render it directly on the browser then we might not get the expected output so what is the reason behind that ? It needs some interpreter which can interpret this language there are various extension available using which we can achive this. You can test it on github gist as well. It also allows us to write HTML within it, so if we are not aware about some markdown syntax then we can always use HTML.

[Dingus](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/dingus), is a tool for writing and reviewing your markdown documents. There are editors like Atom which allows you to write and review markdowns locally as well.

> Markdown, text-to-HTMl conversion tool for web writers.

Explore more about syntax by looking at syntax api of Markdown and you can also get more information from [Markdown Site](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)
